## **Camera trap simulation work**

This repository contains my developments of Marcus Rowcliffe's simulation of camera trap detection of animal movement.
___

### **Languages**

R version 3.6.3 (2020-02-29), Shell

### **Dependencies** 

ggplot2, ggpubr, circular, parallel, rlist, future.apply, ggnewscale, stats4, minpack.lm, gridExtra

### **Installation**

If you would like to run the scripts in this project, you should clone this repository.

___

### **Code**

[**CamtrapSimulation.R**](code/CamtrapSimulation.R)

This script contains all functions necessary to run the simulation as well as the analysis of camera trap detection results to investigate the biases and their effects.

[**pipeline_cluster_path.R**](code/pipeline_cluster_path.R)

This script runs the simulation on the High Performance Computing cluster to generate animal movement paths.

[**cluster_runscript.sh**](code/cluster_runscript.sh)

This script calls the pipeline_cluster_path.R script on the cluster to run the simulation of animal movement paths.

[**pipeline_local_seqdats.R**](code/pipeline_local_seqdats.R)

This script runs the simulation of camera trap detection of animal movement on pre-generated paths, outputting sequence data storing the coordinates of detected points, their speeds, and combining detections at multiple points within one crossing of the detection zone into sequences. Also stores plots of the the first simulation run in the same folder as the paths.

[**pipeline_local_analysis.R**](code/pipeline_local_analysis.R)

This script analyses results from the simulation run in the two above scripts, outputting summary plots showing the biases in the camera trap detection process and subsequent average speed estimation.

[**dz_dimensions_modelling.R**](code/dz_dimensions_modelling.R)

This script contains all modelling work on the probabilistic detection processes of camera traps, notably relating to body mass scaling. Uses data previously collected in Panama, Regent's Park, and India (see Data folder for more information).

[**path_modelling.R**](code/path_modelling.R)

This script contains all the modelling work to simulate animal movement paths, including unimodal versus bimodal movement with body mass scaling work. Uses data previously collected in Panama, Regent's Park, India, and Spain.

[**fit_norm_dist.Rmd**](code/fit_norm_dist.Rmd)

Script written by Francis Windram to explain his thoughts on using a coefficient of variation to scale standard deviation with speed. Didn't end up using in the final simulation because data suggest no body mass scaling of speed standard deviation.

[**rename_path_results.sh**](code/rename_path_results.sh)

This script renames and stores path results generated by the cluster.

[**extra_funcs_CamtrapSimmulation.R**](code/extra_funcs_CamtrapSimulation.R)

This script contains extra functions previously used in the main CamtrapSimulation but not currently needed. May be useful again in future.
___

### **Data**

[**india**](data/india)

This folder contains the camera trap data collected in India (ASK MARCUS FOR INFO).

[**panama**](data/panama)

This folder contains the data and metadata for camera trap data collected in Barro Colorado Island, Panama. More information on the original data collection is found in Leigh (1999), and details of trapping methods and camera settings in Kays et al. (2009) and Rowcliffe et al. (2016).

[**regentspark**](data/regentspark)

This folder contains the data and metadata for camera trap data collected in Regent's Park. More information on trapping methods and camera settings in (ASK CHRIS FOR INFO).

[**spain**](data/spain)

This folder contains the camera trap data collected by Pablo Palencia and colleagues in Spain (Palencia et al. 2019, 2021).

[**combined**](data/combined)

This folder contains combinations of the above datasets used in path and detection zone dimension modelling work.

[**PanTHERIA_database folder**](data/PanTHERIA_database)

This folder contains the main PanTHERIA database and metadata for species' body masses (Jones et al. 2009). 

___

### **References for data used**

Jones, K.E., Bielby, J., Cardillo, M., Fritz, S.A., O'Dell, J., Orme, C.D.L., Safi, K., Sechrest, W., Boakes, E.H., Carbone, C. and Connolly, C., 2009. PanTHERIA: a species‐level database of life history, ecology, and geography of extant and recently extinct mammals: Ecological Archives E090‐184. Ecology, 90(9), pp.2648-2648.

Kays, R., Kranstauber, B., Jansen, P., Carbone, C., Rowcliffe, M., Fountain, T. and Tilak, S., 2009, October. Camera traps as sensor networks for monitoring animal communities. In 2009 IEEE 34th Conference on Local Computer Networks (pp. 811-818). IEEE.

Leigh, E.G., 1999. Tropical forest ecology: a view from Barro Colorado Island. Oxford University Press on Demand.

Palencia, P., Vicente, J., Barroso, P., Barasona, J.Á., Soriguer, R.C. and Acevedo, P., 2019. Estimating day range from camera‐trap data: the animals’ behaviour as a key parameter. Journal of Zoology, 309(3), pp.182-190.

Palencia, P., Fernández‐López, J., Vicente, J. and Acevedo, P., 2021. Innovations in movement and behavioural ecology from camera traps: Day range as model parameter. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 12(7), pp.1201-1212.

Rowcliffe, J.M., Jansen, P.A., Kays, R., Kranstauber, B. and Carbone, C., 2016. Wildlife speed cameras: measuring animal travel speed and day range using camera traps. Remote Sensing in Ecology and Conservation, 2(2), pp.84-94.


___

### **Author name and contact**

Lizzie Bru
lizzie.bru44@gmail.com
